We've seen the fine method in entity manager that loads an entity from the database.
The method is very limited since it can only load an entity using its primary key.
JPQL is a query language that operates on entities stored in a relation database.
It is very similar to SQL,
but the important point to remember is that it operates on entities, not on tables.
The database still uses SQL,
Hibernate or any other JPA implementation needs to transform JPQL to SQL.
Here's a simple query to load orders by customer name.
This is very similar to SQL,
but notice that it queries JPA managed entities not the tables.
Using JPQL also gives you database portability.
Since the queries are translated to SQL by the JPA implementation,
it is the implementations responsibility to
generate the right SQL dialect for the database.
But practically speaking, this portability is rarely considered an advantage.
Switching data stores is expensive in both time and money,
and doesn't happen very often.
JPQL does not support all the features of SQL.
For those cases when you really want to use SQL,
JPA lets you do so.
An extensive coverage of JPQL is done in the following section.